# Last-assignment
DIGITAL ECONOMY

Team: Jesús Catzin, Héctor Hernández, Danilo Cuevas, Pablo Duarte

Digital and non-digital economy right now have been playing important roles in the society affection how the society itself works, starting from how the public acceptance has been, how it has impacted social networks on information and communication teach among others. 

## Describe the public acceptance of the technology.
Public acceptance of technology is a key component when it is focused into the economy whereas it is digital or non-digital. Strong public concerns can shape the direction, pace, success, and diffusion of these technologies. Emerging technologies have sometimes been frustrated because of social and ethical concerns. At the same time, public resistance to technologies can give rise to regulations that promote trust and confidence, and steer innovation along acceptable pathways.
However, according to [1] people are moderately ready to accept technology when it comes to internet banking, and e-commerce and that this phenomena is considered normal and evolutionary.

Additionally, there are a high acceptance of technology in trend that share relationships with global communication, as people seem to engage remarkably in social media such as Facebook, Instagram, Tweeter among others.

However, not all technology is positive accepted, for example Genetically Modified Organisms, Nanotechnology among others are still not well accepted by the whole public, and this because populations are being persuaded to take risks with technologies whose affect are extremely uncertain, and are also being expected to trust information and advice from governments and scientist after period of turbulence associated with scares over medical and ecological controversies, which is usually called the Risk Society. 

New technologies may evolve in response to a variety of demands and pressures, and some may [2] incorporate consumer market research while others may require greater citizen consultation.

To summarize, the acceptance of technology is positive, however, there will be still decisions that could lead a new technology to not be accepted by the public depending on many aspects and it fact, it could lead to improve or affect negatively the digital and non-digital economy.

## Describe the impact of social networks on information and communication tech (ICT) .
Information and communication technology has changed rapidly over the time, with a key development on Social Networks or also called social media.
The impact generated by these are huge and not limited to one only aspect. For example, one impact starts on politics, according to a study from Pew Research, it claims that about one in five U.S adults gets their political news primarily through social media. 

Other impact is on society, almost a quarter of the world’s population is now in Facebook, and nearly 80% of all internet user are on this platform, this is because it feed off interactions among people, and they become more powerful as they grow. 

However, it is not limited to that, social network impacts on commerce to enterprise that uses it as a bridge to connect with customers and build revenue, other impact is in the world of Work, that right now influences recruitment and hiring and huge companies as LinkedIn are important platforms for anyone looking to stand out in their profession. 

However, not all are positive impacts, as well as the social network and its relationship with the ICT opens new doors and generate positive impacts, it does vice versa and end in negative impacts.

For example, social networks allow the cyberbullying again people, other example is the lack of privacy where stalking, personal attacks and misuse of information can affect the users and their personal life in any perspective such as personal life or public life as well as professional work.

In fact, no matter what, the ICT and social network affect a lot the digital and non-digital economy, for example the production of goods and services within the ICT sector directly contributes to the creation of value-added goods and services in the economy, this includes digital and remote works, virtual business, digital money, among others that can also affect non-digital economy.

## Identify skills for the use of ICT in work and life.

In the actuality, ICT is [3] playing an increasingly important role in the global economy creating at least 5% approximately 5% of the total DPG and will probably 
increase. ITC enables economic growth by broadening the reach of technologies and expanding it. 

In fact, even when technology has increased how organization can be more productive, many companies are still not able to makes use of it efficiently as possible. 
The main reasons are that most employers need staff members that understand the full potential of the ITC and how to use it to enhance workplace success. 

In fact, the need of these skills has a huge impact in the digital economy as well as in no digital economy, because it affects the economic in both aspect due 
the fact that the correct use of ICT skills as well as the technologies can increase the profit and even generates more jobs.

However, to make the best use of it, specifically skills are need, some of them are: 

* Email Management and Setup
* Online Research
* Social Media Management 
* Online Collaboration
* Data Management and Queries
* Word Processing
* Latex
* Big Data
* Computer Science 
* Computer Programming
* Processing Information
* Presentation Information


There are many skills for this, and new skills keep emerging to satisfy new necessities.

## Describe the existing regulation in Employment, Ethics, politics, and the data science related regulation.

Regulations can be defined as the rules that are enforced by governmental agencies, and that they set the standard for what you can and cannot do in business while it looks to make sure that everyone plays by the same rules and protect the citizens. 

However, regulations are not something that can cover everything in a simple way, and needs to be defined, created, or adapted to specific fields. 

For example, in Employment the is the “Wages and Hours” which prescribes standards for wages and overtime play [4]. It requires employers to pay covered employees who are not otherwise exempt at least the federal minimum wage and overtime pay of on-and-one-half-times. 

It also has the regulations to have a workplace safety and heal which looks to make employers have a general duty and provide their employees with work and a workplace free from recognized, serious hazards.

Other one, regulations are the Workers’ Compensation, Employee Benefit Security, Employee Protection, Family and medical Leave Act, Veterans’ Preference, Mine 
Safety and Health, Transportation, among other regulations

In fact, as was explained before, regulation changes according to the field, when we focus in ethics from a general perspective, it is hard to stablish regulations, however some of them are the statement of personal responsibility (Competency, Objectivity, etc), fundamental principles, duty, competence, integrity, fairness, among others.

Data Science is not an exception, due the fact that this is a new field, regulations are still being defined and improved over the time, some examples are provided next.

Legal Background, this is one of the most important regulations, because it includes the personal privacy and data protection under the legal terms. 
Creation of Unbiased ML Models [5] which includes elimination protected attributes in the preprocessing state, attempting to train with an additional fairness goal.

End to End monitoring that focus [6] on more resources to monitoring solutions for the ML model, to comply with regulations.

Other regulation inside the data science field are responses to ensure data protections (GDPR and CCPA), reliance of third parties for digital initiatives, ethical considerations of data citizenships, risks to business compliance, finances and reputation, policies to protect individual’s data among others.

## Describe security strategies and their regulation.
When we talk about security strategies it depends on which area you’re focusing. For example, in this section it will focus on data science security strategies and its regulations.

One of them is the Infrastructure Security, which is concerned with securing information against physical and virtual intruders, insider threats, and technical failures of the infrastructure itself.

Some strategies for this are [7] access control, encryption of data at rest and in transit, vulnerability scanning and patching, security monitoring, network segmentation, firewalls, anomaly detection, server hardening, and (endpoint) security policies.

Other one is Software Security that sets the focus on methodologies of how applications can be implemented and protected so that they do not have or expose any vulnerabilities. Some strategies are its made use of SDLC.

Other is Privacy Preservation / Data anonymization where personal information needs to be anonymized to make sure the privacy of the individual is protected. It means that any data record in the data set should not be easily linkable to a particular individual.

Other strategies are focused into the Preventing Machine Learning under attack, apply anomaly detection, train employees in security principles, protect information, computers and networks from viruses, and other malicious code, make backup copies of important business data and information, regularly change passwords, the application of Signature-based IDS, Anomaly-based IDS among others.

## Identify the regulatory framework and institutions that affect the digital economy.
When we talk about regulatory frameworks in data science, it can be understood as the division of powers among the difference’s institutions involved and the strategies used in it.

In this case, there are some institutions that regulate the digital economy as well as to develop the frameworks that other institutions or even enterprise needs to follow. 

The most important are the OECD and right now GSMA. 

In this section, it will focus in the GSMA + NERA which is a global firm of experts dedicated to applying economic, finance and quantitative principles to complex business and legal challenges. 

This framework is divided into three primary objectives, [8] first to describe the competitive dynamics of the modern digital ecosystem as they relate to public policy in general and government regulation in particular; second, to describe why these changes challenge existing regulatory frameworks and require significant reforms; third, to lay out a set of principles to guide policymakers and regulators as they adapt regulation to sweeping changes in the digital economy.

In this specific case, these new framework looks to improve the regulations in three key principles which are [8] regulations should be redesigned around a functionality-based approach; regulation should be reduced or eliminated when justified by market changes, and for areas where regulation is still needed, static, prescriptive regimes should be replaced with dynamic regulation; and regulators should take a bottom-up approach that includes re-examining all aspects of legacy policies.

In general, the goal of this framework for digital economy is to identify and remediate, when possible, shortcomings in market outcomes, and thereby enhance social and economic welfare. Regulatory policies and institutions designed for a by-gone era—when competition was less intense, and markets were not so dynamic and interrelated—cannot achieve those objectives. To the contrary, today’s regulatory policies are, in many cases, having the opposite of their intended effects by distorting markets and inhibiting competition and innovation.

## References
[1] Manap, Mohammad Radzi & Azman, Hazita & Salman, Ali & Hussin, Supyan & Razak, Norizan & Hashim, MS. (2015). MEASURING READINESS, ACCEPTANCE AND SATISFACTION OF INNOVATIVE DIGITAL ECONOMY: PRELIMINARY FINDINGS. e-Bangi. 10. 23-30.
[2] Flynn, R. (2007). Risk and the Public Acceptance of New Technologies. SpringerLink. https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1057/9780230591288_1?error=cookies_not_supported&code=eab2b99d-2260-4bf5-8268-534396a444dd
[3] Top Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Skills. (2020, September 15). The Balance Careers. Retrieved November 23, 2021, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/information-and-communications-technology-skills-4580324
[4] Summary of the Major Laws of the Department of Labor | U.S. Department of Labor. (n.d.). US Deparment. Retrieved November 24, 2021, from https://www.dol.gov/general/aboutdol/majorlaws
[5] Knight, M. (2021, August 25). What Are Data Regulations? DATAVERSITY. Retrieved November 24, 2021, from https://www.dataversity.net/what-are-data-regulations/#
[6] Tannor, P. (2021, August 9). How EU AI Regulations Will Affect Data Science Teams. Deepchecks. Retrieved November 24, 2021, from https://deepchecks.com/how-eu-ai-regulations-will-affect-data-science-teams/
[7] Tellenbach, Bernhard & Rennhard, Marc & Schweizer, Remo. (2019). Security of Data Science and Data Science for Security. 10.1007/978-3-030-11821-1_15.
[8] GSMA. (2018, December). A new regulatory framework for the digital ecosystem. Retrieved November 24, 2021, from https://www.gsma.com/publicpolicy/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/GSMA2016_Report_NewRegulatoryFrameworkForTheDigitalEcosystem_ExecSummary_English.pdf
[9] Code of Ethics | RAPS. (n.d.). RAPS. Retrieved November 24, 2021, from https://www.raps.org/who-we-are/code-of-ethics#:%7E:text=they%20are%20unavoidable.-,Honesty,when%20comment%20is%20ethically%20required.
[10] https://www.darden.virginia.edu/sites/default/files/inline-files/Chap%205_Fostering%20the%20Economic%20and%20Social%20Benefits%20of%20ICT.pdf

## Questions

Héctor Hernández

1. Why is it importat the context in data?

Because Data is a known object that needs to be interpreted and meaningful. Context
can be thought of as data's representational system; such a system includes a common
vocabulary and set of relationship between components.

2. What are they the benefits in the data of organizations when they do changes in technology?

The changes have enabled organizations to use data in new ways to create products,
share information, create knowledge, and improve organizational sucess.

3. In your own words, why is data governance important?

Data governance is important in almost every industry as it is in charge of guiding everything related to data. That can be from data quality to data security, which is a great asset nowadays for all companies.

4. Do you consider data engineering to be appropriate for a data governance profile?

I consider that not entirely, although there are certain characteristics that a data engineer can meet the profile satisfies, but there are others that do not, for example in data security and document and content management are some points that I consider that a data engineer should improve. However, a data engineer can fulfill more with this profile than a business or administration graduate.

5. Which are the three main data ethics considered as core concepts?

The are three parts the first "Impact on people" because the data represents characteristics of individuals and it is used to make decisions. 
Second: Potential for misusing which the miss data can negatively affect people and organizations. 
Last the "economic value of data", which includes the fact that data has economic value is the people knows how to use it

6. Why does organizations have to protect data based on largely laws and regulatory requeriments?

It is because data represents people (customers, employees, patients, etc), and that means that data management professional should recognize that there are tehical as well as legal reasosons to protect data.


Jesús Catzín

1. How is it recomendable divide the data and information within an organization?

It may be helpful to draw a line between information and data for proposes of clear
communication about the requirements and expectations of different uses by different stakeholders.

2. What means Asset in context of a organization?

An asset is an economic resource, that can be owned or controlledm an that holds or produces value.
Assets can be converted to money.

3. In addition to what is mentioned in the book, why do you think people tend to confuse data with information technology?

First, because the use of data as big assets today does not have much time and second, because information technologies have more time, then this may cause people to associate these two concepts.

4. Which data steward profile is closest to a data engineer and why?

Without a doubt one would be the technical data manager, just by reading the short description of what this profile should do, which has several similarities with a data engineer.

5.  How the Beneficence principle is applied in the principles for Data?

In a summary, it focus in the aspect of identifying stakeholders and consider the outcomes of data processing and work to maximize benefit and minimize risk of harm cuased by the process designed.

6. How does the principle of justice is applied in the principles of Data Ethics?

There are many ways to consider, but in summary, it is focused into future-oriented regulation of data processing and respect for the rights to privacy and data protection, including inside ti how the determine personal information processing and last the privacy conscious engineering and design of data processing products and services.
In general it is summarized as data governance which is a vital tool for ensuring thwese principles are considered in deciding who can do what wich data and under what circumstances processing is appropiate or necessary.


Pablo Duarte

1. Why organization rely on data asset?

Thet make more effective decisions and to operate more efficiently.

2. What are the prociples of data managment?

Data is an asset with unique properties, The value of data can and should be expressed
in economic terms, Managing data means managing the quality of data, It takes Metadata
to manege data.

3. Do you consider that a career is necessary to be a data steward and why?

Not necessarily, in fact the book mentions that the best data managers are not born, they are made, as long as they help you reduce data-related risks and get more value from your data. however, I believe that a career related to this field can give you an advantage.

4. Why do you think there are almost no or no data governance vacancies in Mexico?

Mainly because small and medium-sized companies are not used to using their data, i.e., they do not see it as an asset. In addition, some companies may ask someone from information technology because it is more common than someone from data governance.

5. Which are the GDPR principles?

Fairness Lawfulness, Transparency, Purpose Limitation, Data Minimization, Accurace, Sorage Limitation, Integrity and Confidentialiy, and Accountability.

6. Do you consider that UPY should teach classes on data ethics, if not and why?

I would say yes, but at least we think this could be a conflict as sometimes when obtaining data maybe it is not done in the most ethical way, for example in kaggle there are times when it is necessary to accept and confirm that the data will not be shared to anyone and anywhere.


Danilo Cuevas

1. What are the benefist of high quality data?

Improved customer experience, Higher productivity, Reduced risk, Ability to act on opportunities,
Increased revenue and Competitive asvantage gained from insights on customers,
products, processes, and opportunities.

2. What is the propuse of DMBOK Pyramid?

The organization purchases an applications that includes database capabilities
They will find challengers with the quality of their data.
Disciplined practices for managing Data Quality, Metadata, and architecture
require Data Governance thatprovides structural support for data management activities. And
The organization leverages the benefist of well-managed data and advances its nalytic capabilities.

3. If you had to choose between what is more important, the objectives or the principles of data governance?

Neither of the two is more important, both complement each other. However, if one is to be chosen, it would be the goal in data governance, since in base to this the necessary principles can be developed.

4. According to chapter 3, data governance is done by one person?.

No, due to all that data governance is focused on, it requires a team with different skills to help ensure that the data is risk-free so that it can be used appropriately for the institution or company.

5. Which is the main characteristics of the GDPR principles?

The main characteristics are that these principles are balanced by and support certain qualified rights to the individual and that their data, including the rights to access, rectification of inaccurate data, portability, the right to object to processing of personal data that may cause damage or distress, and erasure.

6. What do you think would be the main problem in Mexico if data laws were enforced or regulated?

In the first instance it would be people's ethics, since today there are laws that Mexicans ignore or do not comply with.
